# Lesson plan 2023-09-11 for Richel's lessons

As preparation, with the team, we discussed the schedule, as well as the goals:

Time |Topic                            |Goals
-----|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9:00 |Intro, syllabus                  |Students understand how the course is taught, know to stay or go to breakout room
9:15 |Login, SSH, ThinLinc, login node |having logged in with SSH and ThinLinc, experience the difference between SSH and ThinLinc, first feel of a login node
.    |Parallel session for active users|Marcus: answer more advanced questions (experimental)
9:45 |Break                            |Break, evaluate with helpers
10:00|Command-line intro               |Being able to view/create/move/delete files, create an executable bash script
10:25|Module system                    |Being able to search/load/unload modules, create an executable bash script that uses a module, without SLURM
10:45|Break                            |Break, evaluate with helpers, transfer to Pavlin
15.35|Summary                          |Repeat, be able to improve the course next year

Prerequisites:

 * Zoom room has break-out rooms
 * Students can show their screen in the Zoom rooms
 * Students should be able to do the course without in-person help
 
Teacher goals:

 * Enjoy teaching an online course, by 
  (1) engaging the students by being interactive, 
  (2) making it a social experience for the students
  (3) have fun

## Detailed schedule

### Before first hour

When |What
-----|---------------------------------
8:15 |Pre-meeting Eli
8:30 |Sysadmin comes in, will get own breakout room

### First hour: login

When |What
-----|---------------------------------
8:45 |Welcome students
9:00 |How to the course works. Monologue. A: interactive, camera's on, achieve things in small and changing groups of 2-3, experienced students help out, please work ahead or chat after an assignment
9:05 |Check pre-knowledge: Other clusters? Linux? Command-line? Ask randomly, all should speak
9:10 |Why important? Ask randomly. A: to be able to do the calculations needed for research using sensitive data
9:15 |Show exercises and solutions at [here](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshop/login_bianca/#log-in-to-bianca)
9:17 |Ask for experts to help out by using a 'Yes' 
9:18 |Procedure: try to solve together, when done either work ahead, chat in breakout room, chat in main room, or take an early break
9:20 |Group expert with non-expert, optimize for diversity, send them away directly
9:45 |Break

### Second hour: command-line and modules

When |What
-----|---------------------------------
10:00|Check pre-knowledge: Command-line? Terminal? Ask randomly, most should speak
10:05|Why important? Ask randomly. A: to be able to work with files, create and start scripts
10:10|Show exercises and solutions at [here](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshop/commandline/)
10:12|Ask for experts to help out by using a 'Yes' 
10:14|Procedure: try to solve together, when done either work ahead, chat in breakout room, chat in main room, or take an early break
10:24|Call students back
10:25|Check pre-knowledge: Module system? Ask randomly, at least two should speak
10:30|Why important? Ask randomly. A: to be able to work undisturbed on the same computer
10:32|Show exercises and solutions at [here](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshop/modules1/)
10:34|Continue working in break-out rooms
10:45|Break

## Instructions for anonymous evaluation, Jon

 * Discuss: Why anonymous evaluation? Because it helps the teachers and course improve
 * Discuss: Why anonymous? Because it makes the evaluation more honest
 * Discuss: Why by Jon? Because the students don't know him :-)
 * Discuss procedure:
   * Students get URL to the Google Form
   * Students are divided into groups of 2 (maybe 1 group of 3) in breakout rooms,
     where they fill in the Form together. 
     Goal is to make the text less personal, as it has been worked on together.
     After sending in, students can say bye in the main room or leave directly
   * The results will be published uncensored on this website as far as this
     is legal (e.g. phone number and email addresses will be censored).
     Goal is to show our students we care about what they think
     and we teachers are confident we can improve
  * Then actually do it :-)

## Instructions for observer, Eli

 * Camera on, like all students
 * Keep regular Zoom name, no need to add `[observer]` or something
 * You will be introduced by the students, so that they
   know who you are would you like to go into a breakout room
 * Feel free to jump in and out of breakout rooms when you feel like it;
   no need to ask first

Observation questions:

 * Most students will expect a classic lecture. 
   Here, this will unexpectedly be engaged.
   How did students adapt to this situation?
 * Did I engage the students? 
   Did I miss opportunities to engage them more?
   Did I over-engage?
 * Do you think students used the privacy of the
   break-out rooms to have an informal chat after the exercise?
   Do you think that is OK?
 * Do you think I had fun?
   Do you think the students noticed I had fun?

## Reflection

I spent quite some time to prepare my lectures and I think I did a good job
there. However -as happens more often- I felt without energy when
actually doing the teaching.

At the start I asked some students to make them talk,
yet I did not persist as planned and I felt the questions
were too low-level for university staff.

I was sloppy in sharing the URLs needed in the chat. 
Luckily, Diana corrected that! 
I did talk to the students less, as I had quite some helpers, 
and I wanted them to do teaching. This came at the cost
that I did not observe student progress myself,
but I trust the helpers to have a good enough judgement there.

Directly after my teaching, I write this reflection 
and go to sleep directly afterwards :-)



