# Lesson plan

- Date: 2024-05-24
- Course: Intermediate Bianca
- Teacher: Richel

I will be teaching at the start and end of the day:

When | Who  | What
-----|------|-------------------------
9:00 | R    | Introduction
9:15 | R    | Transferring files to and from Bianca
10:00| .    | Break
10:15| R    | Transferring files to and from Bianca
10:35| D    | Slurm jobs
11:00| .    | Break
11:15| D    | Slurm jobs
12:00| .    | Lunch
13:00| B    | Software and packages installation
13:45| .    | Break
14:00| BR   | IDEs on Bianca
14:45| .    | Break
15:00| L    | NAISS-SENS summary
15:30| R    | Summary
15:35| R    | Evaluation
15:45| All  | Optional Q/A and extra material
16:00| .    | END

- Who: `B`: Björn, `L`: Lars, `R`: Richèl

Most of my preparation is in the lessons themselves, 
except I start with the (dull!) 'Who is Richel' lecture.

I searched the literature about how to evaluate online lessons are done well.

Here is a list from [Means, 1993], wording from [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018]:

- students are engaged in authentic and multidisciplinary tasks
- assessments are based on students’ performance of real tasks
- students participate in interactive modes of instruction
- students work collaboratively
- students are grouped heterogeneously
- the teacher is a facilitator in learning
- students learn through exploration

Here are two assessment tables from [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018], table 3:

During this class, did you your students engage in the following activities?                                          |No |Yes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|---
Participated in online discussions e.g., via discussion forums, blogs, wikis, etc.                                    |.  |.
Shared your knowledge and expertise with the learning community                                                       |.  |.
Interacted with other students in team tasks or projects                                                              |.  |.
Participated in hands-on practice so that you can apply learned knowledge to the real-world                           |.  |.
Assessed peers on team-based assignments                                                                              |.  |.
Assessed peers on individual assignments                                                                              |.  |.
Used various computer technologies outside of Canvas to communicate with the instructor and class peers               |.  |.
Used library/Internet resources to complete assignments                                                               |.  |.
Made a presentation to the class                                                                                      |.  |.
Participated in setting goals and choosing tasks to meet course requirements                                          |.  |.
Engaged in meaningful and challenging activities e.g., problem solving, case analysis, that require critical thinking |.  |.
Explored new ideas/tools and pushed the envelope in ideas and/or research                                             |.  |.
Worked on assignments or projects that involve using research skills                                                  |.  |.

Here are is the second part of an assessment tables from [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018], table 3:

During this class, did you:                                                                                             |No |Yes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|---
Show respect to students in all communications with them?                                                               |.  |.
Show enthusiasm when interacting with students in the learning environment?                                             |.  |.
Explain clearly course goals and expectations?                                                                          |.  |.
Use examples or illustrations that helped them understand course content better?                                        |.  |.
Participate in discussions with students around ideas from the readings or class notes?                                 |.  |.
Relate course content to work experiences or real-world experiences?                                                    |.  |.
Provide prompt (within 72 h) feedback on activities, assignments, or projects?                                          |.  |.
Provide meaningful feedback on activities, assignments, or projects?                                                    |.  |.
Communicate with student about their course progress (i.e., grades, quality of work, ways to improve, etc.)?            |.  |.
Motivate students to get interested in the course content?                                                              |.  |.
prompt students to reflect on their learning & think more deeply about the course content                               |.  |.
assess student learning in a variety of ways                                                                            |.  |.
create a supportive and safe learning environment that allows for diversity & multiple perspectives                     |.  |.
teach self-regulating strategies e.g., self-monitoring progress, time management, help-seeking skills, self-instruction |.  |.

Here is the first of two assessment tables, adapted from [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018]:

Feature                         | CI | SEE | BE | Part of feature                 | Good instructional approach
--------------------------------|----|-----|----|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Vision of Learning**          |.   |Y    |Y   | **Responsible for learning**    | Learner involved in setting goals, choosing tasks, developing assessments and standards for the tasks; has big picture of learning and next steps in mind
**Vision of Learning**          |Y   |.    |.   | **Strategic**                   | Learner actively develops repertoire of thinking/learning strategies for changeable and complex knowledge building
**Vision of Learning**          |.   |Y    |Y   | **Energized by learning**       | Learning is intrinsic; has a passion for learning, solving problems
**Vision of Learning**          |.   |Y    |.   | **Collaborative**               | Learner develops new ideas and understanding in conversations and work with others
**Technology**                  |.   |Y    |Y   | **Interconnectivity**           | Technology allows interaction by communicating and collaborating in diverse ways
**Technology**                  |Y   |.    |.   | **Access to challenging tasks** | Technology offers or allows access to tasks, data, and learning opportunities that stimulate thought and inquiry
**Technology**                  |.   |Y    |.   | **Enables learning by doing**   | Technology offers access to simulations, goals-based learning, and real-world problems and productivity tools
**Technology**                  |Y   |Y    |Y   | **Media Use**                   | Technology provides opportunities to use media technologies

- `CI` = Cognitive investment, i.e. being thoughtful
- `SEE` = Socio-emotional engagement, i.e. interactions and/or reactions
- `BE` = Behavioral engagement, i.e. participation

Here is the second of two assessment tables, adapted from [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018]:

Feature                         | CI | SEE | BE | Part of feature                 | Good teaching
--------------------------------|----|-----|----|---------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Instructor Role**             |.   |Y    |Y   | **Facilitator**                 | Engages in negotiation, stimulates and monitors discussion and project work but does not control
**Instructor Role**             |.   |Y    |Y   | **Guide**                       | Helps students to construct their own meaning by modeling, mediating, explaining when needed, redirecting focus, providing
**Instructor Role**             |Y   |Y    |.   | **Co-learner/co-investigator**  | Instructor considers self as learner; willing to take risks to explore areas outside his or her expertise; collaborates with other experts and practicing professionals
**Tasks**                       |.   |Y    |Y   | **Authentic**                   | Pertains to real world, meaningful intellectual work; may be addressed to personal interest
**Tasks**                       |Y   |.    |.   | **Challenging**                 | Difficult enough to be interesting but not totally frustrating, usually sustained
**Tasks**                       |Y   |.    |.   | **Multidisciplinary**           | Involves integrating disciplines to solve problems and address issues in context
**Grouping**                    |.   |Y    |.   | **Heterogeneous**               | Small groups with persons with different skill sets, backgrounds, interests
**Grouping**                    |Y   |Y    |.   | **Equitable**                   | Groups sized and organized so that over time all students have challenging learning tasks/experiences
**Grouping**                    |.   |Y    |.   | **Flexible/agile**              | Different groups organized for different instructional purposes; supports collaboration across multiple contributors
**Instructional Model**         |.   |Y    |.   | **Interactive**                 | Instruction actively engages learners through meaningful context and construction of knowledge; encourages, supports and responds to student contributions, needs, requests for clarification, etc.
**Instructional Model**         |Y   |.    |.   | **Generative**                  | Instruction oriented to constructing meaning; providing meaningful activities/experiences

- `CI` = Cognitive investment, i.e. being thoughtful
- `SEE` = Socio-emotional engagement, i.e. interactions and/or reactions
- `BE` = Behavioral engagement, i.e. participation

I want to try out:

* More time for feedback. I met a colleague in the hallways and stated that
  I had 5 minutes for feedback. She said that was too short. I agreed.
  In hindsight, I am unsure. So I try it out in this course
* Fewer Zoom rooms: I want the learners to remain in the main Zoom room
  and work in silence. Learners can ask questions in the chat or in the shared
  document and if needed, can go to a Zoom room with a TA

## References

- [Bigatel & Edel-Malizia, 2018] Bigatel, Paula M., and Stephanie Edel-Malizia. "Using the “indicators of engaged learning online” framework to evaluate online course quality." TechTrends 62.1 (2018): 58-70.
- [Means, 1993] Means, Barbara. "Using technology to support education reform." (1993).
