## File transfer

Goal of this exercise is:

- to practice using HackMD
- getting to know your prior knowledge

Below are three tallies, such as this example:

```
What is X?

- [ ] A
- [ ] B
```

Pick one character for you, e.g. `*` or `R` or `?` or whatever (duplicates are fine!). Between the `[ ]` you agree on, write that character. In the end this may look like:

```
What is X?

- [s#k%vq*#6] A
- [q.vR] B
```

Now we know 9 people think A is the answer, where 4 people think it is B.

### 1. My favorite way to transfer files to/from Bianca now is using:

- [xjsr] FileZilla
- [ ] fuse-sshfs and mounting the wharf
- [ ] lftp
- [Z] rsync
- [ ] scp
- [sl] sftp
- [ ] sshfs and mounting the wharf
- [ ] Rclone
- [ ] WinSCP
- [ ] other

### 2. About rsync:

- [ r] I have never followed a lecture on rsync, I don't know what it is
- [sL] I have never heard a lecture on rsync, but I've never gotten it to work
- [j] I have never heard a lecture on rsync, I have gotten it to work, but don't use it in practice
- [Z] I have never heard a lecture on rsync, I have gotten it to work, and use it
- [x] I have heard a lecture on rsync, but I've never gotten it to work
- [] I have heard a lecture on rsync, I have gotten it to work, but don't use it in practice
- [ ] I have heard a lecture on rsync, I have gotten it to work, and use it

### 3. About FileZilla:

- [ ] I have never followed a lecture on FileZilla, I don't know what it is
- [ ] I have never heard a lecture on FileZilla, but I've never gotten it to work
- [] I have never heard a lecture on FileZilla, I have gotten it to work, but don't use it in practice
- [slj] I have never heard a lecture on FileZilla, I have gotten it to work, and use it
- [r] I have heard a lecture on FileZilla, but I've never gotten it to work
- [ ] I have heard a lecture on FileZilla, I have gotten it to work, but don't use it in practice
- [] I have heard a lecture on FileZilla, I have gotten it to work, and use it

## Evaluation

If you leave early, an evaluation can be found at <https://forms.gle/TpYYr6EhdgUQdPwn7>. Please share your thoughts with us there, thanks!

## IDE pick

We pick the winning IDE democratically:

In the shared document, add a character before each IDE you'd be interested in, between the [ ] of each option. This will be messy. You can vote for 0, 1, 2 or 3 IDEs.

It may look like below, where there is a preference for Jupyter:

```
- [,a/b*efgh!] Jupyter
- [a/d,h] RStudio
- [cd!h]VSCodium
```

Here it is for real:

- [ ] Jupyter
- [ ls] RStudio <------- WINNERR
- [ a] VSCodium


## Questions on file transfer

- Q: [Sakshi] I use FileZilla to transfer between local machine and a remote one. Can Filezilla be used to transfer between two remote servers? 
    - A: [Richel] No, as far as I know, one cannot. I learned this from https://superuser.com/a/1258576 , I quote: 'FileZilla does not allow any kind of transfer between two remote systems using any protocol'. I feel this is correct, but I can be wrong!

- Q: [Sakshi] From Bianca wharf rsync/sftp can only transfer between two remote servers if they are part of UPPMAX. Is that correct?
  - A: [Richel] (sorry for mixing you up :-) ) You may be right: I think one can rsync directly between Rackham and Bianca (but I can be wrong!). It is for sure the purpose of Transit to connect any two NAISS clusters, so mounting two 'wharfs' can/should be done there. How to mount a second NAISS cluster, I am unsure: I've never done that
