# Lesson plan

- Date: 2024-09-25
- Course: Basic Bianca
- Teacher: Richel
- [Reflection](../../reflections/20240925/20240925_richel.md)

I will be teaching mostly in the morning:

When  | Who  | What
------|------|-----------------------------
9:00  | R    | [DONE] Introduction, [DONE] log in to remote desktop, [DONE] use the remote desktop
10:00 | .    | Break
10:15 | R    | [DONE] log in to console environment, [FAR] Command line
11:00 | .    | Break
11:15 | R    | [DONE] Modules
12:00 | .    | Lunch
13:00 | P    | Transferring files to and from Bianca 55m
13:55 | .    | Break 10m
14:05 | B    | Compute nodes and SLURM, including interactive nodes 50m
14:55 | .    | Break
15:10 | L    | Legal aspects of sensitive data 20m
15:30 | R    | Summary
15:35 | R    | Anonymous evaluation
15:45 | All  | Optional Q&A

* Who: `B`: Björn, `L`: Lars, `P`: Pavlin, `R`: Richèl

Each of my lessons has a Gantt chart for the time schedule.

I have prepared reasonably well:

- I checked the course material
- I did not re-record the new exercises (but these exercises did have
  a video before)

I want to keep from previous time:

- Use 10 minutes for feedback
- Do tell about myself at the start
- Do ask random learners
- Share with learners to use the videos as a reminder in the future

I want to change:

- [x] Add time to get a 2FA
- Use Zoom rooms, without changes. Last iteration I kept all learners
  in the main room. This was done, because two iterations back, I changed
  the learners' groups multiple times. This iteration, I'll do the compromise
  between those, as I should have them in little groups.
- [x] prepare the summary by adding other courses
- [x] Add answers to the questions. As we know how important feedback is, it
  is unknown to me why I do not provide the answer: I guess it was
  lack of time?
- [x] Compare with the Into to UPPMAX Day 1. There, too, I take the time
  for copy-pasting to/from the ThinLinc interface
  - The material has gotten more similar :-)
- [x] Indicate two routes: a beginner and an experienced
- [x] Add finding wharf as a teaching goal
- [ ] Mention the feedback and evaluation forms at the start
- [ ] create more breakout rooms for the evaluation. Do do
  the evaluation in room 1. Let questions be answered in
  other breakout rooms
- I will use group sizes of 3, due to
  [my last reflection](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_day_1/reflections/20240827/)
  being positive on group sizes of 3.

