# Reflection

- Author: Richel
- Course: Intro to Bianca
- Date: 2024-09-25

## Course schedule

When  | Who  | What
------|------|-----------------------------
9:00  | R    | Introduction, login, log in to remote desktop, use the remote desktop
10:00 | .    | Break
10:15 | R    | Log in to console environment, command line
11:00 | .    | Break
11:15 | R    | Create an executable script, use modules
12:00 | .    | Lunch
13:00 | P    | Transferring files to and from Bianca
13:55 | .    | Break
14:05 | B    | Compute nodes and SLURM, including interactive nodes
14:55 | .    | Break
15:10 | L    | Legal aspects of sensitive data
15:30 | R    | Summary and anonymous evaluation
15:45 | All  | Optional Q&A

* Who: `B`: Björn, `L`: Lars, `P`: Pavlin, `R`: Richèl

## Until lunch

In practice, this was the schedule

When  | Who  | What
------|------|-----------------------------
9:00  | R    | Introduction 15 mins, login 30 mins, log in to remote desktop 15 mins
10:00 | .    | Break
10:15 | R    | log in to remote desktop another 15 mins, use the remote desktop 20 mins, then 10 mins for 'Log in to console environment', then 0 minutes for 'command line'
11:00 | .    | Break
11:15 | R    | Create an executable script, use modules

At the start, there were 9 learners.
During the course, 1 learner left as she already knew eveything.
Another 1 learner left probably due to the same reasons: I met her
at the 'Intro to UPPMAX Day 1' course, where we teach the same
content, yet for Rackham.

The Zoom rooms worked reasonably well. Instead of closing and re-creating the
rooms, learners moved themselves. This was a slowdown, but I felt not too
much of a hassle. 
There was 1 room that had a learner with dozens of questions and another
room with 2 experts. I moved the learner with questions to the room with the
experts and I think that that was a win-win situation.

Due to learner-centered teaching, it was made clear that the login via
SSH had too little time. I would need a 45 minutes session to be able to
go through that.

- [ ] Discuss either moving SSH login to the Intermediate course,
  or request 45 minutes more time

I felt there were too many too short sessions, next time I will merge these.

- [ ] Merge sessions to bigger ones

Points from the lesson plan:

- Use 10 minutes for feedback: not needed plenarily, due to group rooms
- Do tell about myself at the start: done, felt OK
- Do ask random learners: done, I think I made the learners comfortable
  with saying 'I don't know'
- Share with learners to use the videos as a reminder in the future:
  I did not, as the exercises did not all have vides
  - I did get a compliment on the YouTube videos made as part of the documentation
- Add time to get a 2FA: all 9 learners had done this
- Use Zoom rooms, without changes: done, used group size of 3,
  worked well
- Add answers to the questions: done, seems to work well
- Add finding wharf as a teaching goal: this seems to work well
- Mention the feedback and evaluation forms at the start: done

## After lunch

[Unknown]

- [x] prepare the summary by adding other courses
- [x] Indicate two routes: a beginner and an experienced
- [ ] create more breakout rooms for the evaluation. Do do
  the evaluation in room 1. Let questions be answered in
  other breakout rooms

